.TH SPPCONFIG 8 "2017\-06\-19"
.SH NAME
sppconfig \- configure a SPP network interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "sppconfig [-v] [-a] [-s] [interface]"
.br
.B "sppconfig [-v] interface options | address ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Sppconfig
is a modification of ifconfig used to configure the kernel-resident Space Packet
Protocol network interface. It is used at boot time to set up the interface as
necessary.  After that, it is usually only needed when debugging or when system
tuning is needed.
.LP
If no arguments are given,
.B sppconfig
displays the status of the currently active interfaces.  If
a single
.B interface
argument is given, it displays the status of the given interface
only; if a single
.B \-a
argument is given, it displays the status of all interfaces, even
those that are down.  Otherwise, it configures an interface.

.SH Address Families
SPP is the only address family supported by this tool. It is used for
decoding and displaying all protocol addresses.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
display all interfaces which are currently available, even if down
.TP
.B -s
display a short list (like netstat -i)
.TP
.B -v
be more verbose for some error conditions
.TP
.B interface
The name of the interface.  This is usually a driver name followed by
a unit number, for example
.B slp0
for the first SLIP interface. If your kernel supports alias interfaces,
you can specify them with syntax like
.B slp0:0
for the first alias of slp0. You can use them to assign more addresses. To
delete an alias interface use
.BR "sppconfig slp0:0 down" .
Note: for every scope (i.e. same net with address/netmask combination) all
aliases are deleted, if you delete the first (primary).
.TP
.B up
This flag causes the interface to be activated.  It is implicitly
specified if an address is assigned to the interface; you can suppress this
behavior when using an alias interface by appending an
.BR "-"
to the alias (e.g.
.BR "eth0:0-" ).
.TP
.B down
This flag causes the driver for this interface to be shut down.
.TP
.B "[\-]arp"
Enable or disable the use of the ARP protocol on this interface.
.TP
.B "mtu N"
This parameter sets the Maximum Transfer Unit (MTU) of an interface.
.TP
.B "irq addr"
Set the interrupt line used by this device.  Not all devices can
dynamically change their IRQ setting.
.TP
.B "io_addr addr"
Set the start address in I/O space for this device.
.TP
.B "mem_start addr"
Set the start address for shared memory used by this device.  Only a
few devices need this.
.TP
.B "media type"
Currently unimplemented.
Set the physical port or medium type to be used by the device.
The special medium type of
.B auto
can be used to tell the driver to auto-sense the media.
.TP
.B "[\-]pointopoint [addr]"
This keyword enables the
.B point-to-point
mode of an interface, meaning that it is a direct link between two
machines with nobody else listening on it.
.br
If the address argument is also given, set the protocol address of
the other side of the link. Otherwise, set or clear the
.B IFF_POINTOPOINT
flag for the interface.
.TP
.B hw class address
Set the hardware address of this interface, if the device driver
supports this operation.  The keyword must be followed by the
name of the hardware class and the printable ASCII equivalent of
the hardware address.  Hardware classes currently supported include
.B ether
(Ethernet),
.B ax25
(AMPR AX.25),
.B ARCnet
and
.B netrom
(AMPR NET/ROM).
.TP
.B address
The IP address to be assigned to this interface.
.TP
.B txqueuelen length
Set the length of the transmit queue of the device. It is useful to set this
to small values for slower devices with a high latency (modem links, ISDN)
to prevent fast bulk transfers from disturbing interactive traffic like
telnet too much.
.SH NOTES
Since kernel release 2.2 there are no explicit interface statistics for
alias interfaces anymore. The statistics printed for the original address
are shared with all alias addresses on the same device. If you want per-address
statistics you should add explicit accounting
rules for the address using the
.BR iptables (8)
command.
.LP
Since net\-tools 1.60\-4 sppconfig is printing byte counters and human readable
counters with IEC 60027-2 units. So 1 KiB are 2^10 byte. Note, the numbers
are truncated to one decimal (which can by quite a large error if you
consider 0.1 PiB is 112.589.990.684.262 bytes :)
.LP
Interrupt problems with Ethernet device drivers fail with EAGAIN
.I (SIOCSIIFLAGS: Resource temporarily unavailable)
it is most likely a interrupt conflict. See
.I http://www.scyld.com/expert/irq\-conflict.html
for more information.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/dev
.br
.I /proc/net/if_inet6
.SH SEE ALSO
route(8), netstat(8), arp(8), rarp(8), iptables(8), ifup(8), interfaces(5).
.br
http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/binary.html - Prefixes for binary multiples
.SH AUTHORS
.br
Jacob Willis, <willisj2@byu.edu>
.br
Jacob Holtom, <>
.br
Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
.br
Alan Cox, <Alan.Cox@linux.org>
.br
Phil Blundell, <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com>
.br
Andi Kleen
.br
Bernd Eckenfels, <net\-tools@lina.inka.de>
